FAA Wildlife Strikes, 2015 

Analysing the datset for Federal Aerial Adminstration (FAA) wildlife strikes on aircrafts  in U.S dataset.
During the past century, wildlife-aircraft strikes have resulted in the loss of hundreds of lives worldwide, as well as billions of dollars in aircraft damage. 


Task: Explore the dataset of total wildlife strikes that have occured from 2000 to 2015.

Organisation: Federation of Aerial Adminstration (FAA).


About the dataset:

Data contains information regarding the wildlife species and aircrafts: 

     Species groups   
     Number of strikes
     Amount of damage
     Total Cost $
     Origin states
     Phase-of-flight
     Feet above ground
     Miles from airport

(VIew datasets here at )

1:
Analysing interesting values and combination in the data  & comparing the aircraft damages & costs in different states across U.S in 15 years using map.

Ohio is the state with highest amountof cost of 441,704 with substantial amount of damage 


2: The altitude & impact relationship: 

The dimension impact to flight, phase of flight  was used to compare against measure feet above ground.

The feet above ground signifies that for most of the aircrafts it is directly correlated with amount of the damage.

The amount of damage is substantial at high altitudes.



3.WIldlife encounters at different altitudes: 

A Dual Axial approach for generating graph  to compare different species encounters at higher altiudes.

It was found that Canada goose are among the birds that caused damage to aircrafts at high altitiudes of  where perching birds caused damage at low altitudes of 3000 ft.


4. The species that causes the most damage: 

A Tree map for determining the amount of damages caused with species.
However, for Geese the number of strikes is low, but, the amount of damage is substantial along with the aircraft being out of service for average is highest - 2160 hours.

*(Reportedly In united states Geese and Canada Goose are reported to have higher amount of damage than any other bird species)


5. Number of strikes from 2000-2015:

Generating an area plot that shows the number of strikes over the years within different states with california, texas and florida on the top & have a significant rise in number of strikes in past few years.

All of the states have increased number of strikes in last four years with more than 250 strikes in a year.


reference links
(https://wildlife.faa.gov/home)
(https://www.nytimes.com/2009/04/25/us/25birds.html)





